{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16400\viewh15480\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf2 \
We thank the reviewer for their comments, which we address below in italics (and note our changes to the manuscript are in boldface).\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs32 \cf2 Comments for the Author:\
\
Reviewer #1: Review report of manuscript SOLA-D-13-02452\
"Bridging EUV and white-light observations to inspect the initiation\
\'a0phase of a "two-stage" solar eruptive event"\
by Byrne et al.\
\
I am pleased to see that the authors softened their statement about\
the evidence of magnetic breakout model. However, I am not satisfied\
with the following statement mentioned in the conclusions:\
\'a0 "It is concluded that this event shows evidence for a torus-unstable\
\'a0 \'a0flux rope ...".\
\

\i Response: We note that it was intended the statement be \'93It is concluded that this event shows evidence for a kink or torus-unstable flux rope \'85\'94, as an interpretation that either model may be a valid interpretation in these observations. This has now also been slightly softened.
\i0 \
\
The reason is that in order to come to such a conclusion, the authors\
have to calculate the decay index of the background magnetic field,\
which is nearly impossible for such a limb event.\
\

\i Response: We agree that this is a limitation, and as such we do not claim definitive proof of the torus-instability but discuss that what we see could pertain to the observables associated with that model.
\i0 \
\
 Second, I would\
doubt a torus instability for the second stage eruption for two reasons:\
(1) The magnetic reconnection which started from the first stage is still\
going on as indicated by the GOES light curve (the whole process is\
not ideal MHD at all so that we cannot distinguish an ideal instability\
from reconnection process);\
\

\i Response: We agree magnetic reconnection is still evident, though it does not have to act as the trigger (for the second stage eruption), but rather could be acting as a facilitator to the development of an instability. This is mentioned in Aulanier et al. (2010) pp. 331, point 5, in reference to Kliem & Torok (2006) and Isenberg & Forbes (2007). Indeed, Kliem & Torok state that the MHD instabilities upon which their model is based \'93show that magnetic reconnection sets in at the rear side of the expanding ring as the instability develops and lets the ring effectively \'92slide\'92 through the external poloidal field\'94. Isenberg & Forbes state that \'93reconnection of the flux rope field lines plays a substantial part in the nonperturbative evolution of the model\'94. We do not know where exactly the reconnection in this event is ocurring, so a torus-unstable scenario may be valid. However in light of other concerns, we do not express it as a definitive conclusion.
\i0 \
\
(2) The flux rope remained at a nearly fixed height for ~50 min. A torus\
instability is a candidate only when the flux rope keeps rising slowly\
and then at a certain height it accelerates suddenly, which might mean\
that the decay index of the magnetic field is not large enough at the\
initial height and becomes large enough at a later stage.\
\

\i Response: We realise now that we have not given clear mention to the fact that the flux rope does rise slowly before the point at which sudden acceleration kicks in. This is evident in the AIA movie accompanying the paper, and has now been made more explicit in the text (p. 8).
\i0 \
\
To me, during the second stage, magnetic reconnection is still going on,\
which cuts more and more line-tied field lines which are converted into\
the closed field in the flux rope. In this sense, a kink instability is\
a candidate for the second-stage eruption rather than a torus instability.\
\

\i Response: We feel the conclusions allow for this interpretation.
\i0 \
\
Other minor issues:\
1. It is better to reword the 4th and 5th lines in the abstract. The\
triggering of a CME can be due to an instability or reconnection (not\
just instability as mentioned in the manuscript);\
\

\i Response: Agreed, abstract reworded accordingly.
\i0 \
\
2. The example at the end of paragraph 3 in Introduction, i.e., "For\
example, ..." can be moved to the end of the 1st paragraph of Sect. 4;\
\

\i Response; Agreed, example moved accordingly.
\i0 \
\
After these revisions, the manuscript is encouraged to be accepted for\
publication in Solar Physics.\
\

\i We note the references in the introduction section have been updated with some recent publications.}