{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16400\viewh15480\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf2 We thank the reviewer for their helpful and insightful comments, and address each one individually below.\
\
\
Reviewer #1: Review report of manuscript SOLA-D-13-02452\
"Bridging EUV and white-light observations: evidence for the breakout\
\'a0model in a two-stage solar eruptive event"\
by Byrne et al.\
\
The initiation process of CMEs is an important part of CME research. This\
process happens in the low corona, which can hardly be detected by both\
disk imaging telescopes and coronagraphs simultaneously. In this sense, the\
extended field of view of SWAP is very useful, and sometimes might be crucial.\
The authors combined the SWAP, SDO/AIA, and MK4 data to analyze the\
2011 March 8 CME event, and claimed that the observations support the\
breakout model for the CME initiation. The processed data are superb,\
and the breakout model is also a nice model from theoretical point of\
view. However, I am not convinced that the presented observations provide\
any signature to support the breakout model. The manuscript should be\
revised significantly before being considered for publication in Solar\
Physics.\
\
Major issue:\
The characteristic of the breakout model is that in the quadrupolar\
magnetic configuration the magnetic reconnection in the triggering phase\
happens above the erupting structure, which distinguishes this model from\
any other model. As a result of this, we expect to see two different sets of\
postflare loops on both sides of the erupting structure. However, the\
postflare loops in the first stage are the typical ones in the classical\
CSHKP model. Two stages of reconnection are not unique in the breakout model.\
For any CME model whose initiation is reconnection-related, we expect to see\
two stages of reconnection (the second one being the main flare). To link the\
observations with any model, we have to figure out the physical connection\
between the two stages, which was not explored too much by Su et al. (2012).\
I encourage the authors to do it. The STEREO/EUVI images may provide clues\
for the secret. My intuition about this event is that the core magnetic field\
(there may or may not be a flux rope before reconnection) erupted in the first\
stage (the reconnecting field lines are mainly oriented in the north-south\
direction, as implied by the flare ribbons in the top-right panel of Fig. 5\
in Su et al. 2012). As it went higher, it was hindered by the overlying\
magnetic field lines which were oriented in the east-west direction. This\
explains why the flux rope stopped for ~50 min as revealed by Fig. 4 in this\
manuscript. As the reconnection in the decay phase of the first stage\
continued, the upward magnetic pressure force of the flux rope overtakes the\
downward magnetic tension force, and the flux rope finally escaped. This is\
why we see east-west oriented flare loops in the second stage as revealed by\
the bottom-right panel of Fig. 5 in Su et al. (2012). In this sense, the\
first stage of reconnection does not correspond to the initiation of the\
eruption, which might be due to tether-cutting, emerging flux, or others which\
cannot be told from the current observations. Do-rotating the STEREO image\
to 2011 March 5 and then comparing the flare loops with the magnetogram can\
help the authors figure out the magnetic topology. This is just my personal\
suggestion, which the authors do not need to completely follow.\
\
A significant rewrite, following futher investigation motivated by the referee\'92s helpful comments above, has been undertaken in the resubmitted version of the manuscript. In particular, we have relaxed the conclusion of possible breakout reconnection because of the lack of observations of the magnetic topology of the active region, and focused instead on the more justifiable conclusion that a kink or torus-unstable flux rope could account for most of the observables of this eruption.\
\
other issues:\
1. Lines 21-22 on p. 2: As mentioned in the review paper Chen (2011) which\
was cited in the introduction, the initiation process of CMEs can be an\
ideal MHD one or resistive one (where reconnection is involved). Instability\
is just one type of triggering mechanisms, and there are also magnetic\
reconnection-related triggering mechanisms.\
\
Agreed; reworded to encompass all.\'a0\
\
\
2. Line 24 on p. 2: It is not wrong to say "the underlying structure of\
the CME as a flux rope". But, since the context is about the pre-eruption\
structure and there has been a debate whether a flux rope always exists\
before CME eruption, it is better to reword this sentence to something\
like "Considering the pre-eruption structure of the CME as a flux rope\
(e.g., Chen, 1996) or strongly sheared arcade ...";\
\
Agreed; reworded.\
\'a0\
3. Lines 26-28 on p. 2: It is better to include the earliest reference\
for each of the ideas, e.g., Moore and LaBonte (1980) for the reconnection\
beneath the flux rope, Antiochos et al. (1999) for the breakout model, etc.\
\
Agreed; additional references added.\
\'a0\
4. Sect. 2: onboard --> on board;\
\
Corrected everywhere.\
\'a0\
\
5. p. 6: It is better to say that the CME first appeared in the FOV of LASCO\
\'a0at 19:30 UT, rather than "The CME erupted at approximately 19:30 UT";\
\
Agreed; reworded around the first appearance in LASCO.\
\'a0\
\
6. Fig. 3: It might be better for the left panel to have the same x(y)-range\
as the right panel, so that the spatial relation of the two picked structures\
can be revealed directly;\
\
Unfortunately the spatial resolutions of the two instruments differ enough to warrant not zooming-in further on the MK4 image.\'a0\
\
\
7. Fig. 4: Seems to me that the structure indicated by the yellow arrow is\
not the SWAP EUV loop identified in Fig. 6. If it is true, it is better to\
use another color for Fig. 4 in order to avoid confusion;\
\
Agreed.\
\'a0\
\
8. Lines 9-10 on p. 13: It is not appropriate to call helmet streamers as\
the precursor to CME initiation. It is just a type of pre-eruption structure\
of CMEs;\
\
Agreed; reworded as "sometimes observed prior to CME initiation".\
\'a0\
9. It is very strange that throughout the manuscript the readers cannot get\
the information on the wavelength of the EUV image from SWAP;\
\
Explicit details on the SWAP imager have been added to the text.\
\
10. In order to understand the difference of two structures identified in\
Fig. 6, it is better to replace Fig. 5 with two panels of images showing\
the evolutions of the SWAP images and MK4 images respectively (mainly in\
the late phase when the yellow and red ellipses are distinctly separate).\
Although the author presented a movie, it is not clear to see the difference\
between the two data sets since they are merged together. One thing should\
be kept in mind that what we observe in MK4 is the real density-enhanced\
structure, whereas that in EUV is also sensitive to the temperature;\
\
This figure is used to place a direct context of the SWAP EUV image on the MK4 image and relate the structure of the region as indicated by the ellipses. Moreover it gives context to the size of the CME that is visible as the larger density enhancement to the southwest. The image is a snapshot of the movie that is the best way to view the offset in the evolution of the two datasets, which is proceeded by a figure of the ellipses directly, their measured height differences, and a C2 image for futher context (especially in light of Fig.1 that shows the FoV overlaps). The previous (now figure 3) multiscale enhanced images now show four separate panels of the erupting structure.\
\
The important point of EUV being sensitive to temperature, as compared to the white-light, is now mentioned in the text. \
\
11. Bottom right panel of Fig. 4 displays a better evolution of the CME than\
in Fig. 4 of Su et al. (2012) with more details, such as the stationary phase\
of the loops. Such a feature immediately reminds me of the event studied by\
Zhou et al. (2006, ApJ, 651, 1238). The similarity of the two events is worth\
mentioning.\
\
The Zhou et al. reference was inspected and some similarities found that warrant its inclusion in our introduction, but more compelling similarities were not evident because the event they report was due to an eruptive prominence and mass drainage, which we do not observe here.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
*******************************\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs32 \cf2 Comments for the Author:\
\
Reviewer #1: Review report of manuscript SOLA-D-13-02452\
"Bridging EUV and white-light observations to inspect the initiation\
\'a0phase of a "two-stage" solar eruptive event"\
by Byrne et al.\
\
I am pleased to see that the authors softened their statement about\
the evidence of magnetic breakout model. However, I am not satisfied\
with the following statement mentioned in the conclusions:\
\'a0 "It is concluded that this event shows evidence for a torus-unstable\
\'a0 \'a0flux rope ...".\
\

\i Response: We note that it was intended the statement be \'93It is concluded that this event shows evidence for a kink or torus-unstable flux rope \'85\'94, as an interpretation that either model may be a valid interpretation in these observations.
\i0 \
\
The reason is that in order to come to such a conclusion, the authors\
have to calculate the decay index of the background magnetic field,\
which is nearly impossible for such a limb event.\
\

\i Response: We agree that this is a limitation, and as such we do not claim definitive proof of the torus-instability but discuss that what we see could pertain to the observables associated with that model.
\i0 \
\
 Second, I would\
doubt a torus instability for the second stage eruption for two reasons:\
(1) The magnetic reconnection which started from the first stage is still\
going on as indicated by the GOES light curve (the whole process is\
not ideal MHD at all so that we cannot distinguish an ideal instability\
from reconnection process);\
\

\i Response: We agree magnetic reconnection is still evident, though it does not have to act as the trigger (for the second stage eruption), but rather could be acting as a facilitator to the development of an instability. This is mentioned in Aulanier et al. (2010) pp. 331, point 5, in reference to Kliem & Torok (2006) and Isenberg & Forbes (2007). Indeed, Kliem & Torok state that the MHD instabilities upon which their model is based \'93show that magnetic reconnection sets in at the rear side of the expanding ring as the instability develops and lets the ring effectively \'92slide\'92 through the external poloidal field\'94. Isenberg & Forbes state that \'93reconnection of the flux rope field lines plays a substantial part in the nonperturbative evolution of the model\'94. We do not know where exactly the reconnection in this event is ocurring, so a torus-unstable scenario may be valid. However in light of other concerns, we do not express it as a definitive conclusion.
\i0 \
\
(2) The flux rope remained at a nearly fixed height for ~50 min. A torus\
instability is a candidate only when the flux rope keeps rising slowly\
and then at a certain height it accelerates suddenly, which might mean\
that the decay index of the magnetic field is not large enough at the\
initial height and becomes large enough at a later stage.\
\

\i Response: We realise now that we have not given clear mention to the fact that the flux rope does rise slowly before the point at which sudden acceleration kicks in. This is evident in the AIA movie accompanying the paper, and has now been made more explicit in the text (p. 8).
\i0 \
\
To me, during the second stage, magnetic reconnection is still going on,\
which cuts more and more line-tied field lines which are converted into\
the closed field in the flux rope. In this sense, a kink instability is\
a candidate for the second-stage eruption rather than a torus instability.\
\

\i Response: Agreed, conclusions have been edited accordingly.
\i0 \
\
Other minor issues:\
1. It is better to reword the 4th and 5th lines in the abstract. The\
triggering of a CME can be due to an instability or reconnection (not\
just instability as mentioned in the manuscript);\
\

\i Response: Agreed, abstract reworded accordingly.
\i0 \
\
2. The example at the end of paragraph 3 in Introduction, i.e., "For\
example, ..." can be moved to the end of the 1st paragraph of Sect. 4;\
\

\i Response; Agreed, example moved accordingly.
\i0 \
\
After these revisions, the manuscript is encouraged to be accepted for\
publication in Solar Physics.\
\

\i We note the references in the introduction section have been updated with some recent publications.}