{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red16\green60\blue192;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19840\viewh14520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 CSHKP model (standard 2D flare model): A rising prominence above a neutral line of an active region leads to a current sheet, which is prone to Sweet-Parker or Petschek reconnection, such that a resulting X- or Y-type reconnection point triggers a flare, particle acceleration, and plasmoid ejection.\
\
A difficulty is not knowing the driver mechanism. Some possibilities are emerging flux, loss of equilibrium, or opening up of magnetic field in a type of quadrupolar geometry. These can be caused by mass motion (rising prominence) or photospheric evolution (emergence, flows, or shearing).\
\
Many key observations have been reported to date that indicate magnetic reconnection occurs during a flare+CME. For example, flare ribbons, HXR emission at loop tops and footpoints, loop shrinkage, upward moving plasmoids/blobs. Linking these observations to build a single, unified picture of events is an ongoing challenge. Indeed it may be the case the different events undergo variations of the different possible processes that various models simulate.\
\
For this two-stage eruptive event on 2011-03-08, the postflare loops in the first stage may be likened to the classical CSHKP model after a rising prominence (or more aptly in this case a rising loop structure) that has led to a current sheet and onset reconnection. The erupting loops, which are oriented north-south (above east-west flare ribbons seen in EUVI-Ahead), are then impeded by overlying field lines that are oriented in a more east-west direction as seen in AIA data - where particular wavelengths show these loops to 'move aside' and allow the second stage of the eruption to proceed.\
\
It may be postulated that the upward magnetic pressure force of the erupting structure overcomes the downward magnetic tension force of the overlying field. However the exact physical connections between these two stages is unclear and difficult to determine. Is there a continuous driving force throughout the eruption that leads to a magnetic pressure buildup between the first and second stage, or has the main driving energy been expended during the intial eruption but an unstable situation created whereby the overlying field must eventually 'give way' to the erupting structure?\
\
If it is the former, and a driver mechanism is ongoing such as flux emergence, footpoint motion or mass motion (and ongoing reconnection in the decay phase of the first flare), then this would fit with the standard 2D flare models -- but with the additional constraint of overlying field inhibiting the process and stunting its evolution. The referee offers some suggestions on how the observations clarify this understanding of the topology (seeing the loop orientations both edge-on from AIA, and top-down from EUVI-Ahead). The 'jerk' in the CME's motion when it quickly accelerates during the second stage flare, implies that the upward forces reach a critical point in overcoming the downward forces and lends credence to this theory.\
\
If it is the latter, then some process removes or weakens the overlying field to the point where the eruption proceeds and the CME accelerates outward. In the 'breakout model' the referee suggests that there would exist two different sets of post-flare loops, due to the quadrupolar configuration and an 'overlying' reconnection that opens up this field. However, it seems unclear in the literature that such a signature should be expected, since the scale of the breakout can be quite large, and the field lines do not necessarily accelerate particles to such a confined site as to produce this signature. What further complicates this event is the presence of the helmet streamer above the region, for which the argument may then become: is the erupting flux rope building up enough magnetic pressure to blow-out the streamer, or is there a reconnection process that occurs to allow part of the field to open up and the streamer field to weaken and evolve with the flux rope that then proceeds to move outward? Considering CME breakout, particularly the 'bugle effect' (Van der Holst et al 2009), the observations here have shown evidence for certain effects that pertain to the model, as discussed in the paper. Whether these are strong enough to claim that breakout is definitely being seen over other CME models is perhaps questionable enough to warrant rewording the manuscript - - however there is still argument to be made for giving the model due consideration in light of the points already made in the manuscript.\
\
\
********\
\
According to Aulanier et al. (2010), photospheric flux-cancellation and tether-cutting coronal reconnection do not trigger CMEs in bipolar magnetic fields, but are key pre-eruptive mechanisms for flux ropes to build up and to rise to the critical height above the photosphere at which the torus instability causes the eruption.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Q:\
The material observed in white-light (MK4) appears to move faster than the loops in EUV (SWAP), perhaps due to the different emission mechanisms and their dependency on density: the white-light scattering goes as n^-1 while the EUV goes as n^-2 ? Would this effect be enough? It looks like the same loops are being tracked in the SWAP images, but perhaps the effect is subtle enough to fool the eye such that the tracking of the structures is not quite reaching the heights it should, while the material in MK4 remains easier to track and derive a truer motion.\
\
\
\
EMAIL:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs30 \cf2 \
\
On 10 February 2014 06:15, SOLAR PHYSICS (SOLA) \uc0\u8234 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:vinothini.elango@springer.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 vinothini.elango@springer.com}}>\uc0\u8236  wrote:\
CC: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:lidia.vandriel@obspm.fr"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 lidia.vandriel@obspm.fr}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:mandrini@iafe.uba.ar"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 mandrini@iafe.uba.ar}}\
\
Dear Jason,\
\
We have received the report from our advisor on your manuscript, "Bridging EUV and white-light observations: evidence for the breakout model in a ``two-stage" solar eruptive event.", submitted to Solar Physics.\
\
While the referee is quite positive about the paper, there are nevertheless some significant suggestions that need to be addressed/considered and questions answered before your manuscript could be accepted for publication. \'a0You are asked to carefully consider the reviewer's comments, which are attached, and submit a list of responses to the comments in addition to the revised manuscript as separate submission item. \'a0It may help to indicate new material in the text of the revised ms with a different font, e.g. bold.\
\
Please submit your revised manuscript online by using the Editorial Manager system which can be accessed at:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sola.edmgr.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://sola.edmgr.com/}}\
\
Your username is: BJason-522\
Your password is: jason352566\
\
I am looking forward to receiving your revised manuscript within four weeks time.\
\
With kind regards,\
Lidia van Driel-Gesztelyi\
Editor in Chief\
\
Comments for the Author:\
\
Reviewer #1: Review report of manuscript SOLA-D-13-02452\
"Bridging EUV and white-light observations: evidence for the breakout\
\'a0model in a two-stage solar eruptive event"\
by Byrne et al.\
\
The initiation process of CMEs is an important part of CME research. This\
process happens in the low corona, which can hardly be detected by both\
disk imaging telescopes and coronagraphs simultaneously. In this sense, the\
extended field of view of SWAP is very useful, and sometimes might be crucial.\
The authors combined the SWAP, SDO/AIA, and MK4 data to analyze the\
2011 March 8 CME event, and claimed that the observations support the\
breakout model for the CME initiation. The processed data are superb,\
and the breakout model is also a nice model from theoretical point of\
view. However, I am not convinced that the presented observations provide\
any signature to support the breakout model. The manuscript should be\
revised significantly before being considered for publication in Solar\
Physics.\
\
Major issue:\
The characteristic of the breakout model is that in the quadrupolar\
magnetic configuration the magnetic reconnection in the triggering phase\
happens above the erupting structure, which distinguishes this model from\
any other model. As a result of this, we expect to see two different sets of\
postflare loops on both sides of the erupting structure. However, the\
postflare loops in the first stage are the typical ones in the classical\
CSHKP model. Two stages of reconnection are not unique in the breakout model.\
For any CME model whose initiation is reconnection-related, we expect to see\
two stages of reconnection (the second one being the main flare). To link the\
observations with any model, we have to figure out the physical connection\
between the two stages, which was not explored too much by Su et al. (2012).\
I encourage the authors to do it. The STEREO/EUVI images may provide clues\
for the secret. My intuition about this event is that the core magnetic field\
(there may or may not be a flux rope before reconnection) erupted in the first\
stage (the reconnecting field lines are mainly oriented in the north-south\
direction, as implied by the flare ribbons in the top-right panel of Fig. 5\
in Su et al. 2012). As it went higher, it was hindered by the overlying\
magnetic field lines which were oriented in the east-west direction. This\
explains why the flux rope stopped for ~50 min as revealed by Fig. 4 in this\
manuscript. As the reconnection in the decay phase of the first stage\
continued, the upward magnetic pressure force of the flux rope overtakes the\
downward magnetic tension force, and the flux rope finally escaped. This is\
why we see east-west oriented flare loops in the second stage as revealed by\
the bottom-right panel of Fig. 5 in Su et al. (2012). In this sense, the\
first stage of reconnection does not correspond to the initiation of the\
eruption, which might be due to tether-cutting, emerging flux, or others which\
cannot be told from the current observations. Do-rotating the STEREO image\
to 2011 March 5 and then comparing the flare loops with the magnetogram can\
help the authors figure out the magnetic topology. This is just my personal\
suggestion, which the authors do not need to completely follow.\
\
A significant rewrite, following futher investigation motivated by the referee\'92s helpful comments above, has been undertaken in the resubmitted version of the manuscript. In particular, we have relaxed the conclusion of possible breakout reconnection because of the lack of observations of the magnetic topology of the active region, and focused instead on the more justifiable conclusion that a kink or torus-unstable flux rope could account for most of the observables of this eruption.\
\
other issues:\
1. Lines 21-22 on p. 2: As mentioned in the review paper Chen (2011) which\
was cited in the introduction, the initiation process of CMEs can be an\
ideal MHD one or resistive one (where reconnection is involved). Instability\
is just one type of triggering mechanisms, and there are also magnetic\
reconnection-related triggering mechanisms.\
\
Agreed; reworded to encompass all.\'a0\
\
\
2. Line 24 on p. 2: It is not wrong to say "the underlying structure of\
the CME as a flux rope". But, since the context is about the pre-eruption\
structure and there has been a debate whether a flux rope always exists\
before CME eruption, it is better to reword this sentence to something\
like "Considering the pre-eruption structure of the CME as a flux rope\
(e.g., Chen, 1996) or strongly sheared arcade ...";\
\
Agreed; reworded.\
\'a0\
3. Lines 26-28 on p. 2: It is better to include the earliest reference\
for each of the ideas, e.g., Moore and LaBonte (1980) for the reconnection\
beneath the flux rope, Antiochos et al. (1999) for the breakout model, etc.\
\
Agreed; additional references added.\
\'a0\
4. Sect. 2: onboard --> on board;\
\
Corrected everywhere.\
\'a0\
\
5. p. 6: It is better to say that the CME first appeared in the FOV of LASCO\
\'a0at 19:30 UT, rather than "The CME erupted at approximately 19:30 UT";\
\
Agreed; reworded around the first appearance in LASCO.\
\'a0\
\
6. Fig. 3: It might be better for the left panel to have the same x(y)-range\
as the right panel, so that the spatial relation of the two picked structures\
can be revealed directly;\
\
Unfortunately the spatial resolutions of the two instruments differ enough to warrant not zooming-in further on the MK4 image.\'a0\
\
\
7. Fig. 4: Seems to me that the structure indicated by the yellow arrow is\
not the SWAP EUV loop identified in Fig. 6. If it is true, it is better to\
use another color for Fig. 4 in order to avoid confusion;\
\
Agreed.\
\'a0\
\
8. Lines 9-10 on p. 13: It is not appropriate to call helmet streamers as\
the precursor to CME initiation. It is just a type of pre-eruption structure\
of CMEs;\
\
Agreed; reworded as "sometimes observed prior to CME initiation".\
\'a0\
9. It is very strange that throughout the manuscript the readers cannot get\
the information on the wavelength of the EUV image from SWAP;\
\
Explicit details on the SWAP imager have been added to the text.\
\
10. In order to understand the difference of two structures identified in\
Fig. 6, it is better to replace Fig. 5 with two panels of images showing\
the evolutions of the SWAP images and MK4 images respectively (mainly in\
the late phase when the yellow and red ellipses are distinctly separate).\
Although the author presented a movie, it is not clear to see the difference\
between the two data sets since they are merged together. One thing should\
be kept in mind that what we observe in MK4 is the real density-enhanced\
structure, whereas that in EUV is also sensitive to the temperature;\
\
This figure is used to place a direct context of the SWAP EUV image on the MK4 image and relate the structure of the region as indicated by the ellipses. Moreover it gives context to the size of the CME that is visible as the larger density enhancement to the southwest. The image is a snapshot of the movie that is the best way to view the offset in the evolution of the two datasets, which is proceeded by a figure of the ellipses directly, their measured height differences, and a C2 image for futher context (especially in light of Fig.1 that shows the FoV overlaps). The previous (now figure 3) multiscale enhanced images now show four separate panels of the erupting structure.\
\
The important point of EUV being sensitive to temperature, as compared to the white-light, is now mentioned in the text. \
\
11. Bottom right panel of Fig. 4 displays a better evolution of the CME than\
in Fig. 4 of Su et al. (2012) with more details, such as the stationary phase\
of the loops. Such a feature immediately reminds me of the event studied by\
Zhou et al. (2006, ApJ, 651, 1238). The similarity of the two events is worth\
mentioning.\
\
The Zhou et al. reference was inspected and some similarities found that warrant its inclusion in our introduction, but more compelling similarities were not evident because the event they report was due to an eruptive prominence and mass drainage, which we do not observe here.\
}