{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Referee Report\
\
\
\
The paper analyzes in detail some numerical issues with deriving basic\
kinematic data from observations of CMEs and coronal waves. It also\
presents some solutions to these issues. The authors are to be commended\
for looking into these issues, technical as they are, as few people\
do, despite the importance of the parameters derived from observations\
of CMEs and coronal waves. The Savitzky-Golay filter appears to offer\
a credible alternative to existing methods as a way of reducing the\
effect of noise in the data. However, I believe there are a number of\
points that should be addressed. I also encourage the authors to\
spell out what new information about CME and coronal wave kinematics\
are learned from their analysis techniques that we did not already\
know from previous works.\
\
Response: The comments from the referee have been very helpful in improving the paper. However, on the point above, we feel the aim of achieving new information is highlighted through the methodology specifically in this paper, with case-studies to show the confidence and power of their application. Studies on multiple datasets and the new information on a variety of events is postponed to future work so as not to change the focus too much from the techniques (that could ideally be applied to any datasets, not just CMEs and waves as the examples here).\
\
\
\
2. Sec 2., bullet point 2 - is there another objection to Eq. 1 other\
than the second sentence in this bullet point? If not, please re-word\
this bullet point. Also, "uncertainty interval" should simply be\
"uncertainty".\
\
Response: Agreed; changes made accordingly.\
 \
\
3. I don't understand why the authors use a percentage of the CME\
height to determine the scatter (Sec 2.1). Firstly, it implies that\
the height of CMEs at earlier times are better determined than later\
times, absolutely if not relatively. Is this really the case? Can\
this be justified? Surely the error in measuring a position is due to\
the error in the ruler and finding a point to measure, not in how far\
away it is from the origin. Secondly, even if there is a linear\
increase of error with time, the error at time t = 0 is not zero.\
There should be a minimum error. I would suggest examining the\
results of the CORPITA algorithm to assess the behavior of the\
measurement error as a function of time. If a suitable justification\
cannot be found then I suggest that the simulated data analysis be\
re-done with a more suitable description for the scatter.\
\
Response: The use of a percentage scatter is to convey the fact that we are studying phenomena that become increasingly faint and disjoint as they propagate, and are therefore increasingly more difficult to discern in the images as the signal-to-noise ratios reduce. A line to highlight this has been added in the paper text here.\
Since we will not have a measurement at time t=0 it does not matter to include a minimum error for the simulation, and it would not change the results or conclusions that are drawn from it.\
\
\
4. 'unknown unknowns'\
\
The authors should NOT refer to "unknown unknowns". The authors\
should be more accurate in what they when they use this colloquial\
phrase. For example, the last paragraph in Sec. 2.2 talks about\
\
"Furthermore, the quantification of uncertainty on the physical\
measurements themselves is extremely non-trivial. This is due to the\
effect of \'91unknown unknowns\'92 throughout the analysis, making a robust\
error estimate practically impossible."\
\
The authors do not mean that their analysis has 'unknown unknowns'\
running through it. I suspect that the authors are referring to at\
present unknown physical mechanisms operating in the phenomena under\
study that help create the observed signal but since they are not\
known, are not modeled. This happens in every scientific\
investigation. The point of this paper is to generate uncertainty\
estimates of the kinematics that can be generated by a consistent\
procedure that takes into account all known or estimated sources of\
uncertainty.\
\
Response: Agreed; changes made accordingly.\
 \
\
5. Please clarify the bootstrapping scheme. It looks like the\
authors are describing residual resampling. Step 4 in section 3 is\
written as\
\
y^\{*\} = y + \\\\epsilon^\{*\}.\
\
A residual resampling scheme uses\
\
y^\{*\} = \\\\hat\{y\} + \\\\epsilon^\{*\}.\
\
Is the bootstrap used to generate these results exactly as written in\
the paper? If so, please give the name of the bootstrap scheme. Or\
is there merely a typo in text and 'y' should be replaced with \\\\hat\{y\}\
? In any case, the full name of the bootstrapping scheme should be\
given. Please justify the use of (what I think is) residual\
resampling when the errors are time-(height) dependent when the\
residual resampling scheme as described is not. Would a block\
bootstrap not be more appropriate in this case?\
\
Response: The referee is correct that the bootstrapping is a residual resampling scheme, specified now in the text. Although the errors may be time-(height) dependent, that is not always the case but is simply a likely scenario for these type of observations and thus used in the simulations here. Since there is no way to quantify the exact form of such errors, it is sufficient to use the bootstrapping scheme in its standard form. A block bootstrap calls into question the size of an appropriate block, whether that size be randomised or not, and whether CME or wave measurements even provide a large enough dataset for block bootstrapping to be warranted. A block bootstrap has now been coded up for investigation of these effects, and does not change the output of the simulations in any worthy manner for this study.\
\
\
6. There are many filtering/smoothing schemes (splines, moving\
average) - why choose the Savitzky-Golay filter? What property of the\
Savitzky-Golay filter recommends itself to the authors? Would other\
filtering/smoothing schemes with similar properties give very similar\
results, say to within a standard deviation (as assessed via\
bootstrap)? Smoothness in the derivatives would seem to be a\
desirable property. It might be that almost any appropriately chosen\
smoothing scheme gives better results than the 3-point Lagrangian,\
with results similar to those derived via the Savitzky-Golay filter.\
The paper would have much greater weight in the community if they\
could show that filters with certain properties are desirable in the\
analysis of CME and coronal wave data, and are superior to existing\
techniques commonly used.\
\
Response: The motivation for a piecewise interpretation of the kinematics, such as provided by the Savitzky-Golay filter, is outlined at the end of the fourth paragraph & beginning of the fifth paragraph of section 3. The discussion here highlights the sort of filter properties that are ideally suited to the analysis of this type of data, with the Sav-Gol as a clear example of this that we opt to use because it provides higher orders simultaneously (i.e., velocity and acceleration).\
\
\
7. Sec 4.1, para.3. The authors argue that the analysis method\
applied towards the end of the time-series are prone to end-effects.\
Such end effects are also present at the start of the time-series, and\
so comments as to the uncertainty in derived parameters should apply\
to both the start and end of the time-series. Please comment in more\
detail about both ends of the time-series. Is it right to say that\
end effects must be significant when the amount of time spanned by\
the filter overlaps with the ends of the time-series?\
\
Response: Agreed; more detailed comments on the start of the time-series as well as the end have been added accordingly.\
 \
\
8. Fig.12.\
It looks like at some position angles, the wavefront is decelerating,\
and at others the wavefront is accelerating and then decelerating.\
Could the authors comment on this?\
\
Response: In addressing this point, we have avoided binning the wave detections into angles of 10 degrees, and now inspect all angles for better resolution. This has overcome those erroneous trends somewhat, and a point added to the literature on how individual angles should not necessarily be trusted, but that the spread and scatter is the best way to determine the kinematics.\
 \
\
\
Minor points\
------------\
\
Abstract\
\
In the "Results" part of the abstract, the sentence\
\
"...then its accuracy can be examined..."\
\
should be\
\
"...then its precision can be examined..."\
\
This is because the true values to the kinematic parameters are not\
known, and so accuracy cannot be ascertained. I encorage the authors\
to check for the occurence of both accuracy and precision in the text\
and edit accordingly.\
\
Response: Agreed; changes made accordingly. \
\
\
Section 2, first sentence: AIA provides high cadence observations of\
EUV wavefronts\
\
Response: Agreed; line edited. \
\
Equation (1) needs a reference.\
\
Response: Agreed; reference to Bevington added. \
\
Figs 2,3 should mention the true values of the velocity and\
acceleration in the figure legend for ease of reading.\
\
Response: Agreed; figure legends changed accordingly. \
\
Figure 4: a better way to show this result would be to plot a 2-d\
surface (as a function of the % scatter and the cadence) of the width\
of the frequency distributions shown in the lowest plot of Figure 3.\
The colorbar would then represent the precision of the measurement.\
The authors could generate the same type of plot for the accuracy of\
the measurement (say, the frequency distribution means as a function\
of the %scatter and cadcence).\
\
Response: We worried in attempting to achieve this, that it would make the figure more complicated than it needs to be, since the trends are all that we really want to highlight.\
 \
\
Sec. 3, para 2; change "confidence" to "uncertainty"\
\
Response: Agreed; changed. \
\
Sec.5, para 2. "...measuring confidence intervals..."\
I would suggest instead "...estimating confidence intervals...".\
\
Response: Agreed; changed. \
\
"Accurate uncertainty intervals...".\
The paper presents a method of estimating the uncertainty in kinematic\
CME and coronal wave parameters. I would suggest instead\
"Uncertainty estimates calculated via a defined and appropriate\
procedure..."\
\
Response: Agreed; changed. }